Experiment Sizing

Because we have two evaluation metrics of interest, we should make sure that we are choosing an appropriate significance level to conduct each test, in order to preserve a maximum overall Type I error rate of .05. Since we would be happy to deploy the new homepage if either download rate or license purchase rate showed a statistically significant increase, performing both individual tests at a .05 error rate carries the risk of making too many Type I errors. As such, we'll apply the Bonferroni correction to run each test at a .025 error rate so as to protect against making too many errors. If it were the case that we needed to see both metrics with a statistically significant increase, then we wouldn't need to include the correction on the individual tests.

For an overall 5% Type I error rate with Bonferroni correction and 80% power, we should require 6 days (rounded up from 5.55) to reliably detect a 50 download increase per day and 21 days (rounded up from 20.44) to detect an increase of 10 license purchases per day. 21 days is actually a convenient number since the three-week timespan helps to account for weekly cycles. In addition, the 21-day data collection period is a short enough timeframe that running the experiment is a reasonable proposition. If the required experiment length were a few weeks longer, then we might have needed to forego measuring the license purchasing rate as a critical metric.

One thing that isn't accounted for in the base experiment length calculations is that there is going to be a delay between when users download the software and when they actually purchase a license. That is, when we start the experiment, there could be about seven days before a user account associated with a cookie actually comes back to make their purchase. Any purchases observed within the first week might not be attributable to either experimental condition. As a way of accounting for this, we'll run the experiment for about one week longer to allow those users who come in during the third week a chance to come back and be counted in the license purchases tally.
